{\rtf\ansi{\fonttbl{\f1\fmodern Courier New;}{\f2\fnil CSD14;}}{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\fs20\f1\cf0 /********************************************************\line  * This class will calculate the number miles a car\line  * can travel given the number of gallons of fuel,\line  * and the MPG of the car can achieve. \line  *\line  * @author Johnny Haizel-Cobbina\line  * @version 9/19/2015\line  ********************************************************/\line  /*******************************************************\line  *  References and Acknowledgements: Vinnie\line  *  \line  *\line  ********************************************************/\line import java.util.Scanner; // needed for keyboard input\line  \line public class RangeCalculator // START class RangeCalculator\line \'7b  \line    \line    /*****************************************************\line     * main method \line       In this program, it will calculate the gallons or liters needed to travel to a certain destination\line        Ex: How many miles will you be traveling: 100\line            Type the name of your destination that is 100.0 miles away: Bridgewater College\line            Number Of Miles:  100.00\line            Destination: Bridgewater College\line            Gallons needed: 4.35 or Gallons in liters needed: 16.4583\line            \line        Ex2: Welcome to the CSCI105 Range Calculator\line            How many miles will you be traveling: jh\line            jh is not valid. I will use 100 for number of miles.\line            Type the name of your destination that is 100.0 miles away: Congo\line            Number Of Miles:  100.00\line            Destination: Congo\line            Gallons needed: 4.35 or Gallons in liters needed: 16.4583\line        \line        Ex3: How many miles will you be traveling: -78\line          Type the name of your destination that is -78.0 miles away: The sun\line           Number Of Miles:  -78.00\line          Destination: The sun \line          Gallons needed: -3.39 or Gallons in liters needed: -12.8375\line\line     *\line     * @param String args\line     * @return void\line     *****************************************************/\line    public static void main(String args[]) // START main method\line    \'7b  \line       System.out.print("Welcome to the CSCI105 Range Calculator");// Welcome Message                                             \line       \line       //constants\line       final double LITERS_CONVERSION = 3.78541178; // conversion factor for liters\line       final int MPG = 23;// # of miles per gallon\line  \line      // Declarations\line       double numberOfMiles;\line       String destination;\line       double gallons;\line       double liters;\line       String badInput;\line                                                    \line       \line       Scanner keyboard;\line       \line       // instantiate keyboard (readies the Scanner variable for use)\line       keyboard = new Scanner(System.in);  \line       \line      // Prompts and Input\line       \line       \line       System.out.print("\'5cnHow many miles will you be traveling: ");\line       if(keyboard.hasNextInt())// Checks to see if the user input is an integer or not\line          \'7b  \line             numberOfMiles = keyboard.nextInt();// sets numberOfMiles if it is an integer equal to the user input\line             keyboard.nextLine();//clears the buffer after user input\line          \'7d\line        \line            else  \line              \'7b\line                badInput = keyboard.nextLine(); //new container that holds anything else that is not an integer.\line                System.out.print(badInput + " is not valid. I will use 100 for number of miles.");//if the user input is not an integer, this will alert the user.\line                numberOfMiles = 100;//This is the default value for if the number of miles is not an integer.\line                           \line              \'7d\line          \line        System.out.print("\'5cnType the name of your destination that is " + numberOfMiles + " miles away: ");//Prompts the user to enter the name of their destination \line        destination = keyboard.nextLine(); //allows the user to input a string\line     \line   \line       // Calculate number of gallons\line       gallons = numberOfMiles / MPG; // m = 100. m/g = 23.  100/g = 23. 23g = 100. g = 4.3478   \line       \line       // Calculate number of liters\line       liters = gallons * LITERS_CONVERSION; // turn gallons into liters. g = 4.3475 * 3.78541178 = 16.4583\line\line       // Output\line       System.out.printf("Number Of Miles:%,8.2f\'5cn", numberOfMiles);\line       System.out.printf("Destination: %s\'5cn" , destination);\line       System.out.printf("Gallons needed: %,.2f or Gallons in liters needed: %,.4f", gallons , liters);         \line          \line    \'7d // END main method\line    \line \'7d // END class RangeCalculator\line}}